# Identifying Data Types and Structures

Data types are important when programming. The computer has to know whether to expect numbers, text, or other types of values. 

There are five data types for National 5:

==If you are given an example, you need to be able to say which data type it belongs to.==

We could look at the data types in terms of the inputs, processes, and outputs from our analysis.

!!! example

    > You have been asked to create a program asks the user for the names and ages of everyone in the class.
    > When finished, it displays a message saying how many people are in the class, and their average age.
    
    If you were asked to explain the data types used in this program, in the exam, you would say something like:

    * The `names` are `strings`, because they are `text`
    
    * The `ages` are `integers, e.g. someone is `15` years old
    
    * The number of people in the class is an `integer`, because you can’t have `0.5` of a person
    
    * The average is a `real` number, because it might have a `decimal point` in it.

    The last point is really important - quite often, you could be asked to calculate an average. 
    
    Think about it yourself - if three people are 15, 15 and 16, those are integers - but the average is 15.333, a real number.

    Remeber to fully think through the problems!

    ==The data types are really important, because we’ll be talking about them all the time during this topic. You’ll be using and discussing these five basic types in every program.==
