# Types of Errors

There are three types of programming errors that you need to know about - syntax, logic and execution.

If you’re given an example of an error, you need to be able to say what type it is.

Syntax and logic errors occur when you are writing the program; 

execution errors happen when the program is running. 

Of these, syntax errors are usually the easiest to spot.

==Good test data helps you to find and minimise these errors.==

#### Synatx Errors

Syntax errors are quite common. You will already have experienced lots of these!

Syntax errors happen when you make a mistake in typing your code. 

These could be spelling mistakes, typing words in the wrong order, or using the wrong symbols.

For example:

* priiiint instead of print
* print(“Hello,” name) instead of print(“Hello”, name)
* range[0, 10] when it should be range(0, 10)

==Syntax errors are about breaking the rules of the language in some way.==

In Python (specifically), you would see an error message. 

==Look at the message carefully== - it tells you which line the error is on (**so you don’t need to check your whole program**).

When you’re doing practical tasks, watch out for these common syntax errors in Python. 

If you’re not sure what’s causing an error, come back to this page and check your code to see if you’ve included one!

##### Common Error Number 1

=== "Speech Marks"

    ``` python linenums="1"
      print (Hello World) 
    ```
=== "Explanation"
    
    Forgetting to add speech marks around a string. It should be (“Hello world”).

##### Common Error Number 2

=== "Incorrect use of Comparison Operators"

    ``` python linenums="1"      
    print (Hello World) 
      
    if age = 17: 
        print(“You can drive”)
      
    for counter in range(0, 10)
    print(“This happens 10 times”)       
      
    if age >= 17
        print(“You can drive”)
    else:
        print(“You can’t drive”)        
    ```

=== "Explanation"

    'Line 1 - Missing Speechmarks'

    : Forgetting to add speech marks around a string. It should be (“Hello world”).    
    
    : Should be the double-equals ==
    
     Remember to use == when you’re checking if two things are equal

    : Forgot to indent. 
    
    The line that repeats (print) should be indented (tabbed in) as it’s inside the loop.

    : Missing the colon :  at the end of the first line. 
    
    If, else and loops should always have a colon, e.g.

    ``` python linenums="1"
    if age >= 17:
        print(...)  
    ```    

##### Common Error Number 4

=== "Missing Colon"

    ``` python linenums="1"
    if age >= 17
      print(“You can drive”)
    else:
      print(“You can’t drive”)   
    ```

=== "Explanation"
    
    Missing the colon :  at the end of the first line. 
    
    If, else and loops should always have a colon, e.g.

    ``` python linenums="1"
    if age >= 17:
        print(...)  
    ```    

## Logic Errors

Logic errors are a bit  trickier to spot. Logic errors don’t produce error messages. 

The program still runs, but it doesn’t do what you’d expect.

Let’s say I want the program to check if a number is between 0 and 10.

if rating >= 0 and rating <= 100:
    print(“That is a rating out of 10”)
    
This is a logic error, because I typed 100 instead of 10. The program would still run. There’s no syntax error, so I wouldn’t see an error message. Instead, my logic is wrong.
Here’s another example: the program should ask a person’s name and age, and then greet them with their name.
name = input(“What is your name?”)
age = input(“How old are you?”)
print(“Hello”, age, “. You are”, name, “years old.”)
That program would still run, but the output wouldn’t make much sense. If Bob, aged 15, enters his name and age, the program as it stands would output “Hello 15. You are Bob years old”.
Testing with appropriate test data is the best way of tracking down logic errors.
