# Readability

Readability is about making your program easy for you, or other programmers after you, to read and understand. 

There are four ways that you can make your code readable, and you are expected to do these in your work. 

The coursework assignment includes marks for readable code using these four methods.

##### Internal Commentary

Your code should contain internal commentary. 

Comments are notes that you leave to yourself, or other programmers, to explain what’s going on. 

The computer ignores them when translating the program.

I always use internal commentary in the examples I give you, and you’re expected to do the same. 

!!! example "Example of Internal Commentary in Python"

    ``` python linenums="1"      
    # This is an internal comment
    # The computer ignores these lines
    ```
##### Meaningful identifiers

Sometimes also called meaningful variable names. 

When you look at your program, do the variable names help you to understand it? If so, you’ve probably used meaningful names.

In short, don’t call your variables things like x or k. 

Give them more suitable names like age, password, multiplier - whatever! Although the computer ignores the names of variables, you gain marks for using names that make the program easier for humans to understand.

!!! example

    === "Not Meaningful"
    
    ``` python linenums="1"      
    p = input(“What is your age?”)
    = input(“What is your name?”)

    print(“Hello”, x)
    print(“You are”, p, “years old.”)
    ```
    
    === "Meaningful"
    
        ``` python linenums="1"      
        age = input(“What is your age?”)
        name = input(“What is your name?”)

        print(“Hello”, name)
        print(“You are”, age, “years old.”)
        ```
The program on the left is shorter, but the programmer is more likely to make a mistake and mix up x and p.

This becomes even worse in longer programs. Save yourself the trouble by using meaningful variable names.

##### Indentation

Indentation means that code is “tabbed in” from the side, so that it’s clear what loops or if statements it belongs to. 

This is especially true in Python, because in fact, code has to be indented to work properly.

!!! example

    === "Not Meaningful"
    
        ``` python linenums="1"      
        p = input(“What is your age?”)
        x = input(“What is your name?”)
        
        print(“Hello”, x)
        print(“You are”, p, “years old.”)
         ```
    
    === "Meaningful"
    
        ``` python linenums="1"      
        age = input(“What is your age?”)
        name = input(“What is your name?”)

        print(“Hello”, name)
        print(“You are”, age, “years old.”)
        ```


